                                  UAA FOUNDATION
          Lesson-1:
          __________
The course aimed at UAA end users includes administrators,network admins,noc engineers.
It covers UAA product capabilities,high-level concepts,basics of UAA architecture.
By end of this course we can perform UAA tasks:-
               
                   1>Create Topology Views
                   2>Import or export objects in bulk using CSV files
                   3>Create performance threshold policies
                   4>Create alarm correlation polocies
                   5>Create and assign node actions


UAA-Introduuction:

The problems faced by Service Providers are
             1)Poor network visibility
             2)Slow fault isolation & remedition
             3)High operational costs

->The above problems are raised because Older management systems are slow,complicated.
->Assurance tools are based on closed software and Data Silos.
->Customer experience will be poor because Service Providers has Fragmented workflows,
   Manually Intensive operations,Low staff productivity,Multi-vendor,Multi-Domain &
   Multi-Layer

But with BLUE-PLANET UAA Service Providersbenift from Real-time data collection &
  processing and using a Single data store combining with AI-powered Analytics
The above features enable Unified Assurance workflows,Intelligent Automation,
  High staff productivity,Business Growth.

>>Better visualization,Alarm,Event,Performance Management help in Faster isolation &
   prioritizationthis leads to faster resolution & lower costs.
>>Both End to end network service visibility and predicitive Analytics combine allows
  pre emptive actions on potential service issues as well as service level agreements
  (SLA)Compliance leads to Customer Trust & Loyality.

UAA also has Seamless integration with software defined systems,closed-loop automation
  self-healing,Adaptive network


                           UAA Key Components

1]SLA Management
2]Resource Adaptors
3]Performance Management
4]Fault Management
5]Ethernet Asuurance

   UAA Process

It starts with Resouce adaptors it have produtised resource adaptors for performance
 and fault managements capabilities.
It has UAA platforms which acts as base for data normalisation,data processing,
 data storage capablities
On above UAA platform there are several applications for specific operational use
 such as Fault management,performance management,dashboards
On above FM,PM there are Ethernet Assurance,Servie Assurance which provides
 end to end multi-vendor,multi service performance and alarm visualtisation.
 This focuses on monitoring and alerting you in when configured thresholds crossed
SLA Management for SLA thresholding & monitoring


With usage of BLUE-PLANET you can avoid
              1}Network outages
              2]Speed network problem resolution
              3]Maximize staff productivity
              4]Consistent quality to meet SLA Comliance




FEATURES OF  UAA::
1>It can be used in mobiles,desktop or any browser.
2>It allows us to see service network,infrastructure in multiple ways.
3>You can see LOGICAL or PHYSICAL view of Network
4>You can also visualise Service & cross domain Networks
5>With this granular view we can manage network and resource in bettwr way


UAA is Multi-Vendor,Multi-Technology platform that interface with wide range of 
network devices such as:-Mobile Devices,SONET,Optical Deices,L2 Switch,L3 Router,VPN

It uses RESOURCE ADAPTORS and transfers info from devices in UAA
we can Discover devices & inventory
       Receive & Synchronize Alarms events
       Collect performance metrics
       Collect Topology &service information
       L2,L2.5,L3-VLANS,EVCs[Ethernet Virtual Connections],VRFs

UAA connect through multiple protocols such as SNMP,TL1,REST,Netconf
-->

UAA Leverages about 1000 Resource Adaptors.
Support for 200+ Vendors.
Resource Adaptors & DashBoards are customizable.
Simple drag and delievery model.
Predictable Costs.
In UAA Alarms,Event Summaries,Reports & DashBoards,Top-N,Capacity Planning,Topology are 
created according to requirements.
DashBoards contains Fault & performance of networks

To provide graph based alalytics it uses.
Optical Layers,Layer 2,2.5,3,Ethernet,IP,VPNs

                               Lesson-2::

                                Working with  UAA

In this lesson, we will focus on working with UAA to create topology views and import 
objects in bulk using CSV files. We will also create performance threshold policies 
and alarm correlation policies.Finally,we will explore what node actions are and see
how they are used. Each video will cover a single topic. Let's begin.


Creating Topology Views::

UAA gives you both a logical and a physical view of your network. 
Along with both views it also provides customized Topological views which will aid in 
faster fault finding and quicker trouble resolution.the custom topology view feature to 
better manage your network.

TOPOLOGICAL NETWORK VIEW:You can see the Nodes connections between them and services 
which are overlayed on the physical map of geography.You can check the network with
weather with options such as Temperature,Cloud,Pressure,Wind speed,Rain,Precipitation
It can have filters such IP,Ethernet options in Layer All dropdown menu.


Bulk Import of UAA Objects using CSV Files

UAA Administrators may need to import or export many different types of objects into 
or out of UAA. CSV files are an efficient method of performing these tasks. There is 
support for numerous types of objects such as nodes, end-points, trouble ticket settings,
Performance automation scripts and more. 
***
A Comma Separated Value[CSV] file is a plain text file that contains a List of data.
**CSV file has simple structure it consists of List of Data with Comma.
-->But in UAA CSV files consists of two parts:-Header,Body
-->Header contains first two lines of file.
    The first line contains a string that defines the object being imported or exported
    The second line contains comma separated list of column names 
-->Body::The column names mapped to values are assigned in body section.
      Valid column names are defined by object in first line
Such CSV file are used to exchange data between different applications.
In UAA we make use of CSV files to import or export information on nodes,services and 
objects on bulk.

You can aslo import data by using other methods like api.
***
Object types examples:
Endpoints       
Access Control Lists
Node actions
Trouble Ticket Settings
Sub-networks
Service Types


UAA continuously scan the directory for new or any change in CSV files and imports these
files into application.The import process consists of passing files and applying changes
to Database
To export data we need to place export request CSV file in UAA IMPORT DIRECTORY,Once 
UAA imports the request file it exports relevant object in batch mode in UAA EXPORT
DIRECTORY.The object type can be exported can be specified in request file




Performance Threshold Policies

UAA gives you options to create custom performance threshold policies using logical 
operators, multiple criteria, and even dead banding support. Network administrators can 
specify conditions on performance thresholds allowing for greater control over the 
network and resulting in lesser events.


It allows users to create policies to control actions when thresholdds are crossed alarms
are raised

UAA allows user to specify Multiple Criteria for setting up Performance Threshold Policy
using LOGICALOPERATORS called::
                                AND
                                OR
                                NONE

AND::                               OR::                       NONE::                 
      ABSOLUTE                   ABSOLUTE                   While using
        AND                          OR                        SINGLE
      PERCENTILE                 PERCENTILE                  Criteria

DEADBAND
It aslo supports DeadBand.Its an alarm range when no reset action occur.It has
high alarm and low alarm.
It helps in provides a buffer before alarm clears,reduces alarm fapping,
reduces false positives,gives user confidence that alarm cleared

->You can also configure threshold by MULTIPLE POLLONG PERIODS


Alarm Correlation Policies

The Alarms and Events feature allows you to view and manage network and service alarms. 
Although Alarm correlation is automatic and available out of the box, alarm Correlation
 policies give Network Admins and NOC Engineers the ability to group alarms and correlate 
them using multiple criteria and conditions. This helps reduce the overall events and the 
number of alarms, thereby helping in faster fault isolation.


CREATING ALARM CORRELATION POLICIES:-

-->UAA has graph based correlation alarms by default.
-->If you need additional alarm correlation you can add manually filters to group certain
      types of alarm together based on criteria SAAS,SUB NETWORK,alarms originated from same
      node




Node Actions

Whenever a problem occurs on a node, usually it involved carrying out a series of tasks like
 looking up how to connect to that node, checking multiple screens, connecting to the node, 
 executing diagnostic queries, and checking the response from the node. Node actions let you 
 automate all these tasks into a single node action by using a script which makes it easier 
 for a NOC user to find out the issue with the node. This reduces effort and saves time.



-->Node actions are automated actions that can be performed on node
-->They can be of two types:1]SCRIPT
                            2]URL
 1]SCRIPT:-You can specify a script that executed when node action is performed
    EG:Reboot a server,Spike CPU U sage,Ping a node.
 2]URL  :-It allows you to specify the URL that is executing
    EG:Blueplanet.com
-->Node actions group together in node action template.
-->A node action template is a collection of pre defined tasks  that can be executed on 
    node when desired. 
-->Node actions can be configured to perform any number of tasks including
       Running Test Ping,Run a Trace Route,Reboot a server,Run Diagnostic,Spike CPU Usage,
       Test SNMPv2 Walk.
















